.TH cgull 1 "2021-01-03" "cgull" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
cgull \- simple web browser
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgull\fP
[\fB\-C\fP]
[\fIURI ...\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcgull\fP is a simple web browser using GTK+ 3, LibNotify ,GLib and WebKit2GTK+.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the standard arguments of GTK+ 3, \fBcgull\fP knows
about the following options:
.TP
\fB\-C\fP
Disables cooperative instances.
.P
After these options there can be any number of URIs. If no URIs are
given, $\fBCGULL_HOME_URI\fP will be opened.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
In addition to the standard variables of GTK+ 3, \fBcgull\fP knows
about the following environment variables:
.P
.TP
\fBCGULL_ACCEPTED_LANGUAGE\fP
In HTTP requests, WebKit sets the \(lqAccepted-Language\(rq header to
this value. Defaults to \fBen-US\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_DOWNLOAD_DIR\fP
All downloads are automatically stored in this directory. If you want to
stick to XDG directories, then you should configure your
\(lqxdg-user-dirs\(rq and use this:

\f(CW
.nf
\&CGULL_DOWNLOAD_DIR=$(xdg-user-dir DOWNLOAD)
.fi
\fP

This variable defaults to \fB/var/tmp\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_ENABLE_CONSOLE_TO_STDOUT\fP
Enable writing WebKit console messages to stdout.
.TP
.TP
\fBCGULL_ENABLE_SMOOTH_SCROLLING\fP
Enable smooth scrolling.
.TP
\fBCGULL_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP
Cooperative instances are implemented using a named pipe in the file
system. The name of this pipe usually is (at least on modern systems
following XDG \(lqstandards\(rq):
\fI/var\:/run\:/user\:/$UID\:/cgull.fifo\:-$CGULL_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP.

$\fBUID\fP is the id of your user. $\fBCGULL_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP defaults to
\fBmain\fP. If you change this variable, you can launch several
independent cooperative instances of \fBcgull\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_HISTORY_FILE\fP
If set, \fBcgull\fP will write each visited URI to that file. This path
can point to a named pipe, but be aware that the browser will block
until a reader at the other end of the pipe has read all pending data.
.TP
\fBCGULL_HOME_URI\fP
This URI will be opened by pressing the appropriate hotkeys
(\(lqhomepage\(rq or \(lqnew window\(rq) and if no URIs are specified on
the command line. Defaults to \fBabout:blank\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_TAB_POS\fP
Can be one of \fBtop\fP (default), \fBright\fP, \fBbottom\fP,
\fBleft\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_TAB_WIDTH_CHARS\fP
An integer, determines width of tabs. Defaults to 20.
.TP
\fBCGULL_USER_AGENT\fP
\fBcgull\fP will identify itself with this string. Uses WebKit's
default value if unset.
.TP
\fBCGULL_ZOOM
Zoom level for WebKit viewports. Defaults to \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBCGULL_SEARCH_URI
\fBURI\fP used by cgull to initate a search.
Searches are initated if the url given has no protocol specified
and no \fB.\fP in the string.
Defaults to \fBhttps://html.duckduckgo.com/html\fP
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
XDG variables will be used to construct these paths.
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/cgull\:/adblock\fP
Adblock patterns. See \fBcgull.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/cgull\:/certs\fP
Directory where trusted certificates are stored. See
\fBcgull.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/cgull\:/usr-scripts\fP
Directory to store user-supplied JavaScript snippets that run on every page.
See
\fBcgull.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/cgull\:/usr-scripts\fP
Directory to store user-supplied JavaScript snippets that may be called on in
the keymap configuration. See
\fBcgull.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.local\:/share\:/cgull\:/web_extensions\fP
Sets the directory where WebKit will look for web extensions. See
\fBcgull.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.cache\:/cgull\fP
.TQ
\fI~/.cache\:/webkitgtk\fP
.TQ
\fI~/.local\:/share\:/webkitgtk\fP
WebKitGTK will dump its caches and local storage here. It is probably
wise to clean those directories regularly or to mount them as
\fBtmpfs\fP(5).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBcgull\fP is released under the MIT license. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBcgull\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project
was started in June 2014.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cgull.usage (1).
